Add precision in HSTS page (#39853)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/http/reference/headers/strict-transport-security/index.md

{{HTTPSidebar}}

The HTTP **`Strict-Transport-Security`** {{Glossary("response header")}} (often abbreviated as {{Glossary("HSTS")}}) informs browsers that the host should only be accessed using HTTPS, and that any future attempts to access it using HTTP should automatically be upgraded to HTTPS.

> Additionally, on future connections to the host, the browser will not offer the user a means to bypass secure connection errors, such as an invalid certificate.

Reviewer: You mean if that you have connected once, and an attacker tries to insert itself somehow and offer an invalid certificate you can't click through "trust this"?

Author: Yes. For a Known HSTS Host, conformant browsers do not allow the user to bypass TLS errors. In Chrome for example, without HSTS, you can click "Advanced" and then "Proceed to {domain} (unsafe)". With HSTS, instead Chrome shows this message: 

> You cannot visit {domain} right now because the website uses HSTS. Network errors and attacks are usually temporary, so this page will probably work later.

Reviewer 2: I think if we're going to be precise about terms here, like using "host" instead of "site" (and I think we should) then we have to give people a way to understand what these terms mean. Suggestion would be to link to the [glossary entry for Host](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Glossary/Host), but unfortunately that isn't very precise. Perhaps we could improve on that entry?

Reviewer 2: We might also say "the host (and optionally its subdomains)" here.

Author: I was unsure how far to distinguish between "host" and "domain name". As far as I understand, a "host" in general can be an IP address or domain name, but HSTS does not allow IP addresses to be a Known HSTS Host, so for HSTS purposes domain name is what matters. Domain name is clearer to me than host.

However, I was trying to imitate RFC 6797 in distinguishing between host as the active participant (server) and domain name as an identifier for the host. For example, the RFC authors' usage is:

> When establishing an HTTP connection to a given host, however
   instigated, the UA examines its cache of Known HSTS Hosts to see if
   there are any with domain names that are superdomains of the given
   host's domain name.

They speak of the "host's domain name" in the possessive has-a sense, and refer to "connecting to" the host, not the domain name.

I tried to honor that usage but it may be overly pedantic; in the end the only thing HSTS cares about is the domain name. I tried to make that clear in the Description section.

Probably the most precise (but overly verbose) way to say it while also illuminating "host" would be:

> informs browsers that the host (identified by its domain name, and optionally its subdomains) should only be accessed using HTTPS

It introduces too many thoughts in the sentence though. Alternatively, it is technically a little sloppy but gets right to the point:

> informs browsers that the domain name (and optionally its subdomains) should only be accessed using HTTPS

A third option would be to add another sentence explaining it.

Reviewer 2: It's a good question. I suppose the point is that host and domain name are not the same thing: host is a server, domain name is its name (how it is identified).

> informs browsers that the host (identified by its domain name, and optionally its subdomains) should only be accessed using HTTPS

I mostly like this, although there's ambiguity in "and optionally its subdomains" - someone could think the subdomains are part of the things that identify the host. It's really more like: "host (identified by its domain name), and optionally its subdomains,". But I agree that this is too much for the first sentence.

> informs browsers that the domain name (and optionally its subdomains) should only be accessed using HTTPS

I like this less because it's too inaccurate: a domain name isn't a thing you access.

Overall, I think just leaving this with "host" linked to the glossary is fine, and then describing how a host is identified in the Description section.

> [!NOTE]

> > HSTS should be used in addition to configuring an HTTP to HTTPS ({{HTTPStatus("301")}}) redirect on your server, as the initial HTTP connection is still vulnerable to a man-in-the-middle attack.

Reviewer: This isn't quite right. HSTS doesn't prevent the initial connection being vulnerable either unless the browser has the preload list set up.

The original text is more like "using HSTS will always force the upgrade after first connection, and this is more safe that using a server redirect. I am not sure why that is true, other than perhaps the facility to prevent any other kinds of bypasses such as accepting poor certificates, so I think your structure is better.

```suggestion
> HSTS should be used in addition to configuring an HTTP to HTTPS ({{HTTPStatus("301")}}) redirect on your server.
> The initial HTTP connection is still vulnerable to a man-in-the-middle attack, but this can be mitigated using a browser HSTS preload list.
```

Author: Good point. I believe the original text was trying to explain why a redirect to HTTPS alone is insufficient (since this has long been a practice even before HSTS was introduced), but the way it was worded could be misread to imply that they are mutually exclusive. I wanted to emphasize that both should be used (per RFC section 7.2), but when I rewrote the first clause I missed that the second clause ("as the...") becomes wrong, because it's introduced as a reason but does not supply a supporting reason to the first clause.

Reviewer: OK. I'm hoping @wbamberg will look at this in the week. I'll try look at it again Friday.

Author: Agreed. I thought the original note box was awkward so high on the page. I'll look into incorporating the redirect recommendation into the description.

With HSTS, as long as at least one secure connection has been made to the host in the past and the `Strict-Transport-Security` response header was present, the browser remembers it as a Known HSTS Host, and the connection uses HTTPS before a man-in-the-middle attack has a chance to occur. However, the HSTS header alone cannot protect an initial insecure request if the browser has never before connected to the host and so does not have the domain name in its Known HSTS Hosts list. [Preloading](#preloading_strict_transport_security) can mitigate this problem. For the same reason, it is still important to specify the `https` scheme in URLs even when using HSTS.

### Strict Transport Security example scenario

1. At home, you visit `http://example.com/` for the first time.
2. Since the URL scheme is `http` and the browser does not have it in its Known HSTS Hosts list, the connection uses insecure HTTP.
3. The server responds with a `301 Moved Permanently` redirect to `https://example.com/`.
4. The browser makes a new request, this time using HTTPS.
5. The response, made via HTTPS, includes the header:

>    ```

Author: It's getting confused because I used a code fence inside a numbered list. If this doesn't work I can just make it inline instead. I think all the following errors are just side effects of this.

## Directives

- `max-age=<expire-time>`
  - : The time, in seconds, that the browser should remember that a host is only to be accessed using HTTPS.
- `includeSubDomains` {{optional_inline}}
  - : If this optional directive is specified, the HSTS policy applies to all subdomains of the host's domain as well.
- `preload` {{optional_inline}} {{non-standard_inline}}
  - : See [Preloading Strict Transport Security](#preloading_strict_transport_security) for details. When using `preload`, the `max-age` directive must be at least `31536000` (1 year), and the `includeSubDomains` directive must be present.

>     Not part of the specification.

Author: I'm fine with removing it (I didn't write it), but it does seem relevant to me. It is a vendor extension. Is it just considered too much detail?

Perhaps also worth noting for the preload info in this page overall, the https://hstspreload.org/ site itself says in bold, "**HSTS preloading is not recommended.**"

Perhaps on this page it should be more of a footnote, or just link out to that site?

## Description

The `Strict-Transport-Security` header informs the browser that all connections to the host must use HTTPS.

### How the browser handles Strict Transport Security

When an HTTPS response includes the `Strict-Transport-Security` header, the browser adds the host's domain name

> to its persistent list of non-expired Known HSTS Hosts.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
to its list of HSTS hosts.
```

(here and elsewhere) I think you can simplify this. "Known HSTS Host" is a spec term and this explanation would make just as much sense as just "HSTS host". We don't need to say the list is persistent, this is surely obvious. And I'm not sure of the value in talking about a list of "non-expired Known HSTS Hosts", sure if it's expired it's not an HSTS host any more, by definition?

If the domain name is already in the list, the expiration time and `includeSubDomains` directive are updated.
Hosts are identified by their domain names, not including the port. An IP address cannot be a Known HSTS Host.

Every time the browser loads a URL, it first checks the domain name against its Known HSTS Hosts list.

> If the domain name equals (case insensitive) a Known HSTS Host or is a subdomain of one that specified `includeSubDomains`,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the domain name equals (case insensitive) a Known HSTS Host or is a subdomain of one that specified `includeSubDomains`,
```
```suggestion
If the domain name is a case insensitive match for a Known HSTS Host or is a subdomain of one that specified `includeSubDomains`,
```

then the browser uses HTTPS, even if the URL specified the `http` scheme or omitted a scheme.

If a TLS warning or error, such as an invalid certificate, occurs when connecting to a Known HSTS Host,
the browser does not offer the user a way to proceed or "click through" the error message, which would compromise
the intention of strict security.

When the expiration time specified by the `Strict-Transport-Security` header elapses, the next request to the host via HTTP will proceed with insecure HTTP instead of automatically using HTTPS. Whenever the `Strict-Transport-Security` header is delivered to the browser, it will update the expiration time for that host.
Using a fixed value for `max-age` can prevent the HSTS policy from expiring, as each subsequent response will push the expiration farther into the future.

> Should it be necessary to disable Strict Transport Security, setting `max-age=0` (over an HTTPS connection) will immediately expire the HSTS policy, allowing access via HTTP.

Reviewer 2: Agreed, or if we did want to keep the second part:

> To disable Strict Transport Security, set max-age=0: this will immediately...

> [!NOTE]
> The `Strict-Transport-Security` header is _ignored_ by the browser when the request uses HTTP.
> Once your host is accessed over HTTPS with no certificate errors, the browser knows your site is HTTPS-capable and will honor the `Strict-Transport-Security` header.
> Browsers do this as attackers may intercept insecure HTTP connections and inject or remove the header.

### Threat models

> HSTS mitigates several threat models. If an otherwise secure page accidentally includes a URL (such as for an image or script) with the `http` scheme, the insecure connection could expose cookies to eavesdroppers on the network and allow malicious response payload injection. In another scenario, a user opens an insecure URL, such as `http://www.example.com/`. Even if the server redirects the browser to HTTPS, a man-in-the-middle attack on the initial insecure request could direct visitors to a malicious site.

Reviewer 2: > If an otherwise secure page accidentally includes a URL (such as for an image or script) with the `http` scheme, the insecure connection could expose cookies to eavesdroppers on the network and allow malicious response payload injection.

Why is this not already mitigated by mixed content blocking?

Reviewer 2: "mitigates several threat models" - threat models don't get mitigated; threats do. But given the above comment this para might need work anyway.

> With HSTS, as long as at least one secure connection has been made to the host in the past and the `Strict-Transport-Security` response header was present, the browser remembers it as a Known HSTS Host, and the connection uses HTTPS before a man-in-the-middle attack has a chance to occur. However, the HSTS header alone cannot protect an initial insecure request if the browser has never before connected to the host and so does not have the domain name in its Known HSTS Hosts list. [Preloading](#preloading_strict_transport_security) can mitigate this problem. For the same reason, it is still important to specify the `https` scheme in URLs even when using HSTS.

Reviewer 2: > With HSTS, as long as at least one secure connection has been made to the host in the past and the `Strict-Transport-Security` response header was present, the browser remembers it as a Known HSTS Host, and the connection uses HTTPS before a man-in-the-middle attack has a chance to occur.

This is not 100% correct as it doesn't account for HSTS expiry. Also "man"->"manipulator", and "occur" is a very passive way to describe an attack.

Maybe something like:

```suggestion
Once the browser recognises the host as an HSTS host, then all connections will use HTTPS from the beginning, even if the URL uses the HTTP scheme. This prevents a MITM attack on the initial request.

However, the browser is still vulnerable to a MITM attack if the very first connection uses HTTP, because the browser will not yet have received the `Strict-Transport-Security` header, so it won't recognise the host as an HSTS host. The browser is also vulnerable if the `Strict-Transport-Security` header has expired. [Preloading](#preloading_strict_transport_security) can mitigate this problem. For the same reason, it is still important to specify the `https` scheme in URLs even when using HSTS.
```

### Strict Transport Security example scenario

> 1. At home, you visit `http://example.com/` for the first time.

Reviewer 2: This is pretty pedantic, but "you" in MDN usually means the developer, not the user. We would say "The user" here.
